---
title: "HW 03: Multiple linear regression"
subtitle: "due Sun, Nov 8 at 11:59p"
output: 
  tufte::tufte_html:
    tufte_variant: "envisioned"
    highlight: pygments
    css: "sta199-hw.css"
link-citations: yes
---

# Clone assignment repo + start new project

A private repository has already been created for you.

- Go to the [course organization](https://www.github.com/sta199-fa20-002) on 
GitHub.

- In addition to your private individual repositories, you should now see a repo with the prefix **hw-03-**. Go to that repository.
  
- Clone the repo and start a new project in RStudio. See [Lab 01](https://sta199-fa20-002.netlify.app/labs/lab-01-hello-r.html) for more details about how to clone a repo and start a new project.


# Data

In 1975 the Biomedical Department of the Highway Safety Research Insitute 
(HSRI) under the sponsorship of the Consumer Product Safety Commission
completed an anthropometric survey of infants and children.

The goal of the study was to provide child measurement data for design, 
hazard assessment, and standards for products including car seats, 
restraints, children's furniture, playground equipment, toys, bicycles, and 
more. See [here](https://math.nist.gov/~SRessler/anthrokids/) and 
[here](http://mreed.umtri.umich.edu/mreed/downloads/anthro/child/Snyder_1977_Child.pdf) 
for more information ("Anthropometry of Infants, Children, and Youths to Age 18 
for Product Safety Design", 1977).

The file `kids.csv` contains a subset of these data for 1000 children 
between the ages of 8 and 16 and includes the following variables:

- `height`: height of the child (centimeters)
- `sex`: sex of the child (1 = male, 2 = female)
- `age`: age of the child (months)

# Exercises

1. Mutate the `sex` variable to be a factor with levels "male" and "female" and
set "male" to be the reference level.

2. Fit a linear model with `height` as the response and `sex` and `age` as 
predictors. Display the model output in tidy format and write out the linear 
model.

3. Now let's interpret the terms in the model. 
    - Interpret the `age` and `sex` in the context of the problem. 
    - Does the intercept have a meaningful interpretation? If so, interpret the intercept in the context of the problem. Otherwise, briefly explain why not.

4. Construct a 90% confidence interval for $\beta_{\text{age}}$ and interpret the interval in the context of the problem.

5. Report the value of $R^2$ and interpret it in the context of the problem.

6. What is the predicted height for a fourteen-and-a-half-year-old male?

7. Create an effective, well-labeled scatterplot of height versus age with the points 
colored by sex. Include a visualization of your linear model from Exercise #2 on this 
scatterplot.

8. Fit a linear model with `height` as the response and `sex`, `age`, and their interaction as predictors. Display the model output in tidy format 
and write out the linear model.

9. Write out the model equations for males and females.

10. Is there evidence that the relationship between age and height depends on 
sex? Answer comprehensively using a formal hypothesis test.

11. Create an effective well-labeled scatterplot of height versus age with 
points colored by sex. Visualize your linear model from Exercise #10 on this 
scatterplot.

12. Create appropriate and effective diagnostic plots to check the conditions
for multiple linear regression (same conditions as for simple linear regression). For each plot, provide a one or two sentence 
comment describing which condition(s) you are checking, what you observe, and
whether or not the condition is met.

13. Briefly describe any potential limitations of this model beyond your comments
from Exercise #12.


# Submission

Knit to PDF to create a PDF document. Stage and commit all remaining changes, 
and push your work to GitHub. Make sure all files are updated on your GitHub 
repo.

Please only upload your PDF document to Gradescope. Before you submit the 
uploaded document, mark where each answer is to the exercises. If any answer 
spans multiple pages, then mark all pages. Make sure to associate the
"Overall" section with the first page.
